>> Rodriguez: So this has taken us into
the last main part of the workshop, where
we start taking those email campaigns that
we've built, that are relatively simple,
then we start adding some
progressive enhancements to them.
So we're gonna add some animation, see how
we can have some basic interactivity and
animation in our email campaigns.
And then look at a little bit more
complicated interactive email example that
would mimic something like a carousel,
an image switcher,
something like that you
would see on a website.
So, animation interactivity in email is
a hot topic right now in the industry.
We do this research every year to see what
marketers are prioritizing, what they
wanna focus on in the coming year, and
where they're setting their budgets,
what they're actually
prioritizing with their money.
And one of the biggest things every
year is interactivity in emails.
So it's good to see that people
are focusing on more important things like
boosting personalization,
doing better segmenting, and
using automation a lot better in
their email marketing programs.
But 43.8% of marketers
are prioritizing adding
interactivity to their email campaigns.
There's couple of different
reasons why they might do that.
It can drive engagement and
keeps people in email a little bit longer.
When you get into really advanced
versions of interactive emails,
you can even do cool stuff like,
in the inbox,
you're gonna have a checkout
experience for our product.
And for our conferences,
we do the ticket purchasing process
starts in that interactive email.
We've done weird things with having a live
Twitter feed inside of an email campaign.
You can do choose your own
adventure games inside of emails,
it depends on what you wanna do.
But a lot of times you don't necessarily
need an interactive email for
it to be effective and
to have it work for your business, and
get what you want out
of an email campaign.
The most common things that people are
adding from an interactivity standpoint
tend to be those carousels,
the image galleries,
which we'll see how we would
build something like that.
But it's essentially just tabbed contents,
so we have a couple of tabs.
Some of them are hidden by default, and
then depending on what you click on,
then it will display
some secondary content.
And we'll see how that works, but
there's other cool things you can
do with interactive email,
you can have hamburger menus.
If you don't want to show an entire
navigation bar inside of your email,
I would argue that you should rarely have
a navigation bar in an email campaign.
But that's, I guess open for
debate depending on your opinion,
you can do quizzes and polls.
You can do some basic kinda forms and
stuff to get feedback
from your subscribers.
You can do accordions say which is kinda
handy if you're doing something like I
have a lot of disclaimers in
the footer of your email campaign,
which is really common for
retail businesses.
The financial industry, higher education
oftentimes have to have a lot of
disclaimer information in their footer.
If you don't want to display that by
default, you can put it in accordion so
people can pop it open if they really
need to get to that information.
Some cool marketing type stuff,
you can reveal an offer depending on
what they do inside of the email itself.
You can get really complicated and
add products to a cart and
then send that over to your website and
then complete the purchase there.
So all kinds of really cool things that
people are experimenting with in email.
But the main thing to note is that it
doesn't work everywhere across the board
for email clients.
So you have to think really carefully
about what your fallback is,
when you're creating this email to
make sure that it's still a useful
email campaign for
the large number of users,
for most audiences that won't be
seeing that interactive content.
Some pros for interactivity though is
that it can increase accessibility.
Especially when you're doing simple things
which we'll see about like using hovers in
an email campaign.
That's interactivity, you interact
with the email by hovering over and
it changes some state in the email.
That can make things more accessible for,
excuse me,
people that need that added accessibility.
They need some sort of trigger
visually to show that something can be
interacted with.
You can add some cool functionality
like that checkout process or
things like feedback surveys or
something like that using interactivity.
And the big one tends to be, though,
just increasing that engagement,
that buzz around an email campaign.
Like what we do with our Twitter feed or
something like that, or
in email game,
like a choose your own adventure game.
But again, it doesn't work everywhere,
it works very few places.
Usually Apple Mail and some WebKit
based clients are your main bets for
getting interactivity to work.
It's usually complex to
add that interactivity,
we'll see how it's actually added.
It's not just using JavaScript or
something like that,
it's kind of like most things email
it's an old school approach to adding
interactivity to some
markup on a web page.
It can be harder to track
depending on what you're doing.
You have to think more deeply about
how you're tracking engagement,
set up triggers for
those different interactive states
to let you analyze how people
are using those emails.
And then, more often than not, it tends
to be flashy instead of functional.
So there's no real goal behind the
campaign, other than to make it flashy and
create some buzz around your brand or
something like that.
So, I would suggest if you're thinking
about adding interactivity consider why
you would wanna add that interactivity.
If there's a real goal behind it,
if you're providing some sort of
functionality that people really
are asking for in your email.
Or you wanna show off and it actually
works for your product or your company,
then that's awesome,
definitely check this stuff out.
But if not,
you're just trying to be flashy and stuff,
you can oftentimes get away with just
having a nice animated GIF in there.
Or, getting them out of the inbox and
back on your website or
in your application where you can
do all that stuff a lot better and
a lot more readily than
you can inside of email.